# LAE_candidates_SPLUS

The Southern Photometric Local Universe Survey (S-PLUS), when finished, will provide photometric information homogeneously of a large area of the almost unexploited south sky. Its observations in 12-bands allow us to perform a better unveiling of the characteristics of many sources. This configuration helps to compute exquisite star-galaxy-quasar classification and accurate photometric redshift estimates (photo-zs). As a result, S-PLUS is, at present, one of the best surveys to study galaxy evolution in different environments, such as the field, voids, groups, and galaxy clusters up to $z \sim 0.4$. However, the detection of structures at $z \gtrsim 0.5$ by using photo-zs is challenging, mainly due to the depth of these observations. 

An efficient way to select sources at high redshift accurately is by searching for emission-line galaxies. This technique requires narrow-band photometry and a couple of broadbands to measure the flux excess compared to the continuum. Hence, the S-PLUS photometric data is perfect to look for this type of object. Many structures at the peak of the cosmic star-formation epoch have been reported by analyzing the concentration of Lyman Alpha Emitters (Pentericci et al. 2000, Venemans et al. 2005, Harikane et al. 2019, among others). 

Recently, Spinoso et al. (2020) could recover the bright-end of the Lyman alpha emitters (LAEs) luminosity function at $2.0 \lesssim z \lesssim 3.3$ successfully, using J-PLUS data. This survey presents a similar configuration and depth of S-PLUS. Then, we can perform an equivalent technique to detect these high-z sources. Instead of computing the luminosity function, we can analyze the spatial distribution of LAEs to search for some (if any) concentrations, which could be signposts of protocluster of galaxies. 

In this notebook, we show how to select LAEs at $z \sim 2.37$, by using a similar approach to Spinoso et al. (2020). Here, we search these sources in S-PLUS iDR3 data, in particular observations of the DEEP2 field. In order to try to recover protoclusters of galaxies, we analyze the LAE candidate's spatial clustering by applying different methods. 
